=head1 NAME

perldistinfo - Collection of information about how various avenues of
C<perl> track upstream development for eventual inclusion into their
systems.

=head1 Debian

I<RC releases are typically the first time that Debian integrates the new
changes for testing. We upload RCs to the 'experimental' distribution and
use that to perform widespread rebuild testing against the Debian archive.>
[1]

L<https://buildd.debian.org/status/package.php?p=perl&suite=sid>

=head1 OpenBSD

Includes a specific version of C<perl> with each release:

L<https://man.openbsd.org/perl>

More information on the build and development process as it relates to
the included version of C<perl> is needed.

=head1 FreeBSD (Ports)

FreeBSD maintains several versions of upstream C<perl> in its Ports
system. C<perl> was included in the base OS until version 4.xx (confirm+ref
needed).

It disambiguages the varous versions of C<perl> through the use of a
symlink C</usr/local/bin/perl> that points to a I<versioned> binary.

FreeBSD Ports tracks the latest upstream C<perl> development release in
the very closely in the C<perl-devel> port, and for a diverse
set of architectures for each of its supported OS versions. It represents
by far the most sophisticated tracking of available C<perl>s by any
environment.

L<https://svnweb.freebsd.org/ports/head/lang/perl5-devel/>

and the latest releases of the last three major versions [2]. For example,
at the time of this writing, the latest major release of C<perl> is vesion
I<5.32>, which is available in the C<perl-5.32> port.

L<https://www.freshports.org/lang/perl5.32/>

Similar, there are ports for C<perl-5.30> and C<perl-5.28>.

=head2 Version Management

This section is here only to further describe how FreeBSD manages different
C<perl> versions, it is not meant to be a detailed description.

The I<default perl> is managed via symbolic link, and the general approach
can be see by looking at a port's C<Makefile>, in this case the one for
C<perl-devel>:

L<https://svnweb.freebsd.org/ports/head/lang/perl5-devel/Makefile?view=markup>

Generally, C<perl> is installed into C</usr/local/bin/perl${PERL_VERSION}>,
then C<ln -sf>'d to C</usr/local/bin/perl>. C<libperl.so> is managed in
a similar way.

=head2 Other Languages

FreeBSD handles other languages in much the same way, but it's important to
note that it treats C<python2> and C<python3> as totally separate entities [3].

=head1 NetBSD AND pkgsrc

=head1 Windows

=head2 Strawberry Perl

=head2 Cygwin

=head2 Chocolatey

=head1 MaxOS X

=head2 base OS

=head2 Homebrew

=head1

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item 1. L<https://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl5.porters/2021/05/msg260006.html>

=item 2. L<https://svnweb.freebsd.org/ports/head/lang>

=item 3. L<https://svnweb.freebsd.org/ports/head/lang/python3>

=back
